(upbeat music)
- What's up?
- I'm good.
- It's really hot in Miami.
- No, I didn't ask you if you were good.
I said, what's up?
I don't care about your wellbeing, Dax.
I'm just kidding.
- I literally don't know how to answer that otherwise.
- What's up?
- I don't know.
Give me news.
Tell me what's going on in the world.
I don't care about you personally.
No, I'm just kidding.
What's going on?
So you're doing it hot, you said?
- Yeah, it's hot.
Liz is two months away.
- Yeah, that's real hot for her.
- Oh, I guess 24th.
So I think we're three months.
- Oh, I guess it is, yeah, it's just the end of time.
- Two months away, we just finished.
We had a baby shower at her house last weekend.
- I saw a tweet, I believe.
- All we did was, we just got these four tables,
we rented these four tables and they were like,
old wooden, nice looking tables,
but it made the whole thing feel like crazy fancy.
I'm like, you know, it's not that hard to pull off,
but nice looking event.
There's that picture that I posted with my backyard.
- Wait, was that actually your backyard?
- Yeah, that's my backyard.
It's just like, it's like a nice camera and a good angle.
It makes my backyard look giant.
- Was it the tweet about like,
make it a wedding venue, that one?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, I did see that.
I didn't even realize that was your house.
I thought you were saying like,
yours could pull that off.
That's crazy.
- No, that's literally my house.
- Why is Twitter search bad?
I hear people say that and I never knew what they meant,
but like, I'm searching.
- You just got my profile and go to media,
it's like the first thing.
- Oh, media.
- No, the media time thing.
It's the ninth thing, you do it a lot.
(laughing)
- I think I posted that much media.
- Oh yeah, sure enough, is that,
is that like one of Liz's relatives in the photo?
Who is that?
- Yeah, it's her mom.
- That is your house.
Wow.
Look at that.
- Just the camera and the, yeah, the tables.
- Did you hire a bartender?
- That guy was there.
Oh no, I guess you missed the party the last year,
but yeah, if we've been hiring a bartender every time,
we do a thing at our house,
'cause it's not that expensive
and they do all, it's not just him,
it's him and like two other people.
- Yeah.
- And they just make everything extra nice.
Like we had these mango drink,
'cause the mango themed baby shower,
we had these mango drinks to serve.
And instead of just like serving the drinks in a glass,
they like decorated it with all this stuff,
they don't even know where they pulled that out of.
And it just looked so nice.
And yeah, they're not that expensive
and yeah, they'll just like help make your party feel nicer.
- Oh man, the tables, the chairs, the trees in your backyard.
I don't realize how majestic they are
when I've been there.
- Yeah, when you look up.
- Yeah.
- I just don't look up.
Do you do the thing where you just like never look around you
when you're in a place?
- So I don't look down and Liz for some reason
is always looking down when we would walk around.
And remember when we lived in New York,
this was an actual problem because
you would just see the most messed up stuff on the ground.
And I would just never see it.
And she'd always pointed out to me.
Sometimes it's useful 'cause it's like,
I'm about to step on a dog poop.
But a lot of times it was like,
oh look, a pigeon that was flattened over and over.
- Oh geez, yeah.
You don't wanna see that stuff.
- You know, just disturbing stuff on the ground.
So I don't look down when I walk,
but Liz always looks down and she always just has these.
- Okay, I look down.
- Oh you do?
- Yeah, I only look down.
Like we have a lot of geese in our neighborhood
and they just poop all over the sidewalk.
So I'm always like, I'm going on walks
in these sidewalks every day
and I'm looking to make sure I never step on goose poop.
Never have.
I'm pretty good at this.
- I literally step in dog poop like once a week.
Are you serious?
- Just in my own backyard.
- Oh.
- You don't wear shoes in the house.
You do wear shoes in the house.
Oh God, no, oh.
- But hang on, Adam, I don't wear shoes outside.
- Oh, so you stepping it barefoot.
- Yeah.
- It's even worse.
- 'Cause you gotta put shoes on to keep your house clean.
- But hang on, your reaction was that I step in dog poop
and then walk in my house with the dog poop on that.
I know I stepped in it so I like blast it
with the hose right away.
- Oh you know, so you fix it.
- Okay.
- I got you. - But also I'm barefoot.
So I get to, I get to like go between my toes
and I really feel it.
- Oh my God.
That just gave me like play-doh memories,
like all the little play-doh tools,
the way they like squeeze the tree.
- Exactly, exactly like that.
And then you get an instant,
it like kicks up a bunch of smell too, so.
- Yeah, so I only look down.
I never look at like the horizon.
Like when we go through town,
like I could drive into my town of like 10,000 people
and probably find new buildings all over the place.
So I just don't like, if we drive through it,
I don't look at anything.
Does that make sense?
- I'm very absent-minded and I don't pay attention.
So I don't know for me, it's about physically looking
but I'm similar where I just don't notice anything.
- I feel like you notice everything.
You're the person on Twitter that I follow
that notices things.
Oh no, but it's not things like around you.
It's like things that are true in the world.
You just, you're too busy thinking about big thoughts
to notice like what's around you.
Is that what you're saying?
- Yeah, that's like what the absent mind is.
Like I'm like walking around, I'm looking,
but like my eyes aren't actually seeing anything.
It's just kind of passing right through.
It's kind of like when people drive,
like they don't remember driving, it's-
- Right.
- Some of that but like love life.
- Now I'm just looking at all your tweets.
Why do I get on Twitter?
I should stop, I should just not do it
'cause I have so many questions now
but they're not pertinent.
What were we talking about?
Oh, you've been doing good.
You had a baby shower, it's hot there.
It's rained here for like three weeks in a row.
Like the sun is out today
but it's felt like a vampire movie for real for weeks.
It's awful.
Like we got back.
- Is that why you look so depressed?
- I mean, kind of, that's one of the reasons, yeah.
- You kind of look like a vampire, something about it.
I think it's 'cause you're wearing black
but you also got the deep V going on, so like-
- Oh yeah, it's just a jacket.
It's like a sexy vampire.
- It's a very low.
- Yeah, okay.
I am in a very dark room, like extremely dark.
So, I don't know, I wanna talk about stuff.
We're gonna be on a podcast, we should talk about stuff.
What are we talking about today?
- I don't even know what's going on.
I guess we haven't talked about,
we just talk about AI every single podcast, but-
- I know, I get so tired of it.
I just wanna rebrand this thing.
Like, I don't know, what are the AI podcast names?
They have the dumbest names I swear to God.
- We would AI generate it, obviously.
- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, of course.
Have a name dash in there and everything.
- But do we, I guess we didn't talk about Cloud 4?
I think Cloud 4-
- We haven't talked about Cloud 4.
- Or do we talk about Cloud 4?
- There's always something to talk about with AI.
Did people doing crypto podcasts feel this way too?
Were they always something to talk about with the chain?
- Did they say the chain?
I don't know, I'm just guessing.
- The chains, there's a new chain, and there's a side chain.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- So I decided to, that's fine.
I've done this so many times,
so I'm sure you guys hear me say this a bunch of times.
I canceled all of my open AI subscriptions
and I'm trying to move.
(laughing)
I'm trying to centralize on Cloud now,
'cause I saw Cloud got the voice support in the mobile app,
which is the main thing I use open AI for.
And I'm just so annoyed
with the infinite model selections in open AI.
And I really appreciate how Cloud 4 just came out
and just replaced all the Cloud 3 stuff.
You never look at that again.
They're not keeping it around.
And it's the same price, everything.
So it's just simpler.
- I guess, do you still pay for Google?
You still have Gemini?
Or I guess Gemini is kind of free.
I can't figure out Gemini's pricing model.
I don't actually know.
- I think I pay for Google One,
which is like, 'cause I use this storage
and a bunch of other stuff.
And I think I pay for the two that have Gemini,
but I never open Gemini though.
- Oh, you don't open Gemini.
So for a while, I was doing like the open Grock Gemini
and opening AI all at the same time.
I'd have like 03 and then Gemini 2.5 and then Grock 3.
And I just asked them all the same question.
And then I probably don't even look at all three answers.
I just kind of end up on one of them.
But I was doing that and it is really, really stressful.
Like I don't like this feeling of,
I don't even know what's best for what anymore.
So I would like to consolidate.
- The other issue I kept having with open AI is like,
I would just, I would use it for something simple,
but then I would have actually I've selected some like
intense model and it would just take forever to respond.
So I don't know.
My product experience with Chad JBT has just
it like peaked a long time ago.
And it just feels bad to use now.
- Kind of has not been so much.
- Yeah, so that guy is.
So I should probably just never open AI again.
Like there's nothing about like using open AI
that I feel like is unique that I can't get elsewhere.
So I don't know why I ever use it.
'Cause I really do.
I hate that.
- I just have this stupid habit of typing CHA in my URL
for him to go to chat.openai.com and I keep doing it.
So it's like crazy how sticky some of that stuff is.
- Yeah, I was just gonna ask you.
So you consolidate it on cloud,
but I don't know, is cloud four that much better?
My overwhelming feelings with cloud four are
I'm a little bummed that it is very clear
the gains are marginal these days.
Like I don't, I didn't feel like it's that much better
than three seven.
Maybe I just haven't used it enough,
but it just feels like four I'd really hyped up for.
That could be the problem too.
In my mind, I'd really hyped up what four was gonna represent
at like one Dario comment where he was like,
saving big numbers like four for the major improvements.
- Right.
- And for some reason in my mind,
I thought like we can't even imagine what this is gonna be like.
And they just came out,
I didn't expect to come out this soon either.
So I don't know, I was overall a little disappointed,
but it's definitely better.
And it's better in the use case that we have particularly,
but I think I built it up too much.
- Yeah, I mean, this is, we talked about doing building
like a proper benchmark because I just have
all these qualitative, not I'm not gonna say qualitative,
qualitative feel is useful
if it's done in a consistent environment.
My issue is every time I try as new models,
it's like I'm working on a different project
than I was a week ago and like, I don't know,
it's just hard to understand what my feelings are.
But my feelings are, it feels faster to me.
I don't know if that's like totally made up
'cause I don't know why it would be,
but I feel like both in open code and in open control,
like doing some of the support stuff,
I'm like, I feel like it's not as slow as before.
And then I feel like it just feels like tighter.
I think that's the word I would use.
It feels less like it's gonna go
and do some random crazy thing.
It feels like narrower and what it tries to do.
So it feels better to me, but yeah,
it's not like fundamentally changing what we can or can't do.
- Are you using opus at all or just on it?
- I haven't tried opus.
- No. - Yeah.
- Like, again, I don't know when to switch
to these things.
- That's a big pain point.
Knowing sonnet versus opus is like a thing I don't.
I think I just, like with Claude Mack,
I'm just starting with opus.
And then when I run out of it, I guess I'll use sonnet,
but maybe that's why I didn't necessarily
think it was a seat faster.
Maybe opus is not faster.
- Oh, yeah.
I basically assumed opus was gonna be really slow
and the pricing just, I just wasn't interested in trying
'cause it was something I would use every day.
So switching topics a little bit.
I read something interesting today.
It's still in the category of AI,
but a little bit different.
People keep talking about, I think Dario again,
was saying something about like,
there's gonna be a huge hit to white collar jobs,
whatever, the whole like job displacement question.
I saw an interesting comment today.
I have a Hyundai and I know that Hyundai
was building a factory in Alabama.
So if you can take advantage of some of the tax credit stuff,
me and my infinite poor timing,
had to buy a car during chip shortage,
during like no cars being available,
and right after Biden rolled back
the tax credit for electric vehicles,
like they had to be made in America.
So my Hyundai was the last one that was not made in America.
And ever since then, they've been made here.
And they're so cheap now, compared to what I paid for it.
Anyway, so not over it, pretty upset about the whole situation.
But they make them in Alabama now.
And there was an interesting stat where the facility
is crazy automated, where each vehicle
takes 24 hours of human labor, that's at the cost.
And if you value that at like 30 bucks an hour,
40 bucks an hour, whatever,
it's like around a thousand dollars per vehicle
of human labor.
- 24 hours is only a thousand dollars.
Oh man, our tech employee is showing.
- But yeah, 24 times 50 is 1200.
So let's say around a thousand, brother.
- Holy cow, no wonder people have employees.
- Yeah, exactly.
So this is a reminder.
And I've heard this thing talked about for so long.
Like years and years, this keeps coming back where
we just assume that infinitely automating everything
makes economic sense, but human labor is pretty cheap already.
And we've automated a ton of stuff already.
So if you look at that, their factory, okay,
maybe you can do something to cut the human labor in half.
And that's worth something, you know,
$5 a vehicle is pretty good.
But your gains are probably more on like,
just trying to make the machines go twice as fast
and trying to like improve the automation you already have.
- Yeah.
- Even if it still takes, you know, 24 hours per car,
like maybe you're, maybe the automated size producing them
twice as fast or something.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So many people working on them.
- Interesting.
- So like, I think when people talk about automation,
they have such like a naive sense of it.
They just imagine like, oh, like the humans are the parts
that needs to be worked on.
By the way, AI can help with automation of the factory parts,
but you can see out in this situation,
it's not removing any jobs,
or the incentive isn't to like remove the jobs.
If you double the automation side and the demands there,
you're actually gonna double the demand for the human labor
not as well.
So yeah, these situations are just so much more complicated
than they're portrayed.
- I got so wrapped up in the like car factory example
you gave and like the human wages thing
that I just forgot we were talking about losing jobs.
And like, oh yeah, this is okay.
I see how it all ties back to replacing humans.
Man, that's all over the timeline right now.
I don't know if you've noticed Twitter,
it's just like it's constant bombardment with people
predicting the end of software engineering.
And I know software engineering is definitely the like
the place where AI is currently most effective,
but man, people are coming out of the woodworks.
It's really annoying.
It's just really annoying because one,
it's like can't predict any of this stuff.
But two, it's like all the predictions are coming
from these very loud people who like make platforms
that are no code things.
- The replica, I swear, if I see him on one more podcast,
I'm gonna lose my mind.
That guy, why is he bothering me so much?
- No, he's extremely unlikable.
He's always been this way.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
- And then I don't feel so bad for not liking him.
I really don't like him.
- No, he's very annoying.
So I tried V zero again yesterday
and I have such a funny feeling with it
where it is such a well done product.
Like if you're gonna build a product in that shape,
it's really well done.
All these nice little details, really cool UX.
They've pushed as far as some of these underlying LMs can do.
But my feeling around it was it's missing
the most old traditional concept,
which is when a user goes and uses your product,
do they feel like, wow, that felt good to do right away?
'Cause I want to try it and the experience was,
despite all the polish, the great design,
the great UX and all that stuff,
my feeling was, okay, I go try something.
Wow, this is taking forever.
I'm gonna go do something else and come back when it's done.
I come back, wow, that's a disappointing result.
So no product is successful
unless people get to the aha moment
and feel great about it pretty quickly.
So so many of these products, AI related products,
they're like missing this old foundational,
traditional thing.
You just cannot have a successful product
without pulling users to that point.
And I get that everyone is just waiting for the LMs
to become actually magical in these tasks
and then it'll feel that way.
But they really don't right now
and it's kind of like, it's weird that most people
have a disappointing experience.
Like it's tough to work on a product where that's a case.
Even if it is successful for some people,
it kind of limits how it grows.
And if you look at something like Chachi BT,
that actually fulfills that.
Like when you go to use Chachi BT and you ask a question,
almost always you're like, wow, what a great answer.
Like, wow, it's exactly what I was looking for.
But specifically for these app builder things,
or these like things that are trying to layer on top,
it's almost never like, wow, that was a magical experience.
What's funny is what feels magical is a deploy button
hitting deploy and having an instantly live,
which is their old traditional product,
not having to do with AI.
That's where the magic actually is.
Yeah, so it's kind of weird.
- Yeah, like what is the way that they could make it?
I mean, aside from the models, just getting way better.
- Yeah, it's on their control.
- It's just, that's it, isn't it?
It's just, if the first prompt is a miss,
like if it doesn't deliver.
Yeah, and it does, it feels like you just know,
they're all just sitting back there.
'Cause I've even said it about stuff.
Well, the models will get better.
Like, it's like they build this whole city
and it's like, well, there'll be people someday.
It's like all the buildings are there.
We're ready for it.
But like, yeah, what if it doesn't get better
at that particular thing?
That's the thing that's encouraging to me
on the like enhancing programmers tooling
the open codes of the world.
- The bar's a lot lower.
- Yeah, like I feel like the models are good enough right now
to make our job way better.
And it's just now, on that side,
I feel like it's a huge lack of the tooling,
a huge lack of, I guess the cursor exists,
but it doesn't feel like the cities have been built up
nearly as much as the no code, like app builder stuff.
There's like so many of those
and less focus on augmenting engineers,
where I feel like the models are actually really effective.
- Yeah, and I think it's frustrating to work.
'Cause I remember when we used to work
on SSD, the older versions were built on top of CDK
and it was very frustrating to have a user,
new user come in, try it, have a bad experience
and likely turn forever
because of something that was out of our control.
Like it is the worst feeling ever.
So when you're building these products
and you don't work on the LOM,
it must also be really frustrating.
- Yeah, you must just wanna like get on podcasts
and talk about the end of software development
and get angry on Twitter at anybody
who tweets anything bad about Replitt, sorry.
Someone's specific in mind. (laughing)
- Yeah, so like it is not a,
I just know for sure that can be
and with open code, it doesn't feel that way.
It feels like, oh, there's so much for us to do
before we even hit like, okay, we're--
- To vanishing returns.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I don't know where all those tools go,
'cause there's so many of them,
they're all in heavy competition with each other.
- I just saw a tweet today
that was some guy, which I made a list, by the way,
on Twitter, Twitter meta discussion.
I made a list where it's just like a private list,
I didn't know you could do that.
So I just have people, I wanna see their tweets,
like only these people.
- That's supposed to be your following list,
but you have this whole thing.
- Yeah, but I have the whole social chain on follow.
- I can't follow people, that's mean.
But it doesn't default to that type,
so I always end up scrolling through the for you first
and it pisses me out so much.
But anyway, I saw this random tweet
from some random person who's like,
"I tried all 87 AI agentic coding tools."
And they always use like totally different names,
like no one knows what this category is eating at all,
but they lump them all together.
It's like, the first one is like,
goes from lovable to like cursor to windsurf to like both.
And it's like, these are not the same kind of tool,
replica and like, it's just like,
my wife tried to use cursor
and it's not a tool for non-programmers.
And whereas lovable, but these things are very much geared
towards non-programmers, right?
Like it's just totally different products,
but they get lumped into the same category.
It's all very confusing.
- Yeah, it's like where in the spectrum,
it's like a spectrum of like who it's for,
but then if you're on certain points of spectrum,
your product is fundamentally like different.
- I think there could be a place for all these app builders
or for that category, like it does make sense to me
that I hate all the local shops like my barber
or like the county clerk website,
all these websites are terrible.
And I would love for them to just build them
with these tools that are making much better websites.
That makes sense to me, restaurants, whoever,
you have a small business, you wanna have a website
or you wanna have some little apps, it does a thing.
Sounds great.
But like CEOs of those companies making, okay,
the replet guy, you do not need to go out
and talk about the end of software engineering
because that's not what you're making.
Like your product has nothing to do
with the future of software development.
You know what I mean?
Like it's just a totally different thing.
And he just thinks like programmers won't even be needed.
And I don't get how they can't, like he's a CEO,
he's been doing this for how long?
How long has that company been around eight years
or something?
Like has he not thought critically enough about the fact
that his product doesn't eliminate software engineers
in the future now ever?
It won't.
Like that's not even the category.
Am I just crazy?
- It's, no, I mean, it's just funny.
Like this is just what these periods of time are like.
Like you remember what crypto was like?
Did you see my tweet the other day where I was like,
during peak crypto, there was one conversation
that kept coming up over and over and over
and there was debate on both sides
and then CEOs, you know, were saying one thing
and people were saying the other thing.
It felt exactly the same way it feels now.
The question was, oh, well, crypto replaced dollars.
Well, it will replace money, right?
And that was the entire conversation.
You were, you would like filter to one side or the other
and you argued about that.
And in the end, it's like looking back on it.
It was just so irrelevant.
Like you could have been right that crypto
doesn't replace dollars.
But if you use that logic to bet against crypto.
- You got wiped out.
- Yeah, like it's doing great regardless, right?
- Like it's a huge, how many is it a trillion dollar market now?
Like how big is the cryptocurrency?
It's big. - Whatever it is, Bitcoin is high up.
- Yeah, 107K or something.
- That's such a good point.
- But then if you're on the other side,
if you're on the side of, it's definitely gonna replace money
and you went hard on like projects and stuff
where it was meant to be like this thing
that took over all consumers and everyone was using Bitcoin,
you also lost.
- Yeah, so you really should sum this up in a tweet
'cause that tweet that I saw,
the one where you're like, it's the wrong question.
I did not tie it all together.
A lot of your tweets.
I'm not smart enough to actually understand what you mean.
I'm like, that sounds very wise, Dax,
but I don't know what you mean.
- So what happens is sometimes I don't,
I think I have like roughly a good point,
but I know how to express it.
So I literally opened it and I hope people project
like whatever meaning they make it smart into it.
- And then when they project a really dumb one,
you just quote tweet one of your old tweets.
It's like you're an idiot.
(laughing)
Just reply. - Exactly.
- You're dumb. - Yeah.
- You missed the point.
Okay, well that point you just made,
I feel like it's the most, that's tied me back
to that crypto era.
And I can see now how AI could play out similarly
where there is like this enormous value being unlocked,
but we just don't even know where that is yet
or it's still yet to be.
- Yeah, exactly.
It's like if you're betting that,
all software engineering is gonna go away,
that's the equivalent of being like the dollars going away.
And if you're betting that this is all totally a scam
is not gonna work at all,
you're probably gonna lose also.
So the question is like, what is the right question to ask?
And it's just so, so, so difficult in the moment.
I've been having so much.
- Is it possible in the moment?
You think it's actually possible to know the right question?
- Yeah, someone lands on the right.
Someone has clarity and someone gets the right place.
- But did they actually have clarity or did they get lucky?
Like did they just choose the right thing?
- No, you make a bet.
Like I mean, everyone's making a bet.
I think some people's bets are right.
And then do they know for sure?
No, part of it is luck, whatever.
But I have so much more,
I understand something I've always was confused about
for a long time.
I don't know if I've talked about it before,
but because my dad was in tech,
at some point I was looking around and I'm like,
man, how did he like not build Uber?
How did he not build Airbnb?
Like why didn't he like do this?
Why didn't he do that?
Like he technically was in near it
and he like had the skills to like all these things
in hindsight seem so obvious.
And he realized like in the moment,
there's just so much noise
and there's so much opportunity to work on things
that just don't make any sense.
Like that's what 99% of them are.
And it's such a small sliver of them
that actually makes sense and seem really obvious in hindsight.
Now going through these errors,
I'm like, I'm going to look back.
If I like, you know, miss a lot of these things
or like don't super nail it,
I'm sure my kids are going to look back and be like,
how like you were right there?
Like how come you didn't, you know,
how come you didn't found Coinbase?
How come you didn't like, you know, do these things,
but it's so hard.
- Yeah, my kids are like, why didn't you make Minecraft?
This is the best thing in the world.
And how could you not have done this?
You program, what are you even doing with your life?
- Yeah, exactly.
- I had this idea in my head
that something you said just reminded me,
it happened in my sleep last night.
I mean, like when I can't sleep
and I have lots of thoughts.
This like analogy of like these big venture capital
moments, like when, when venture capital focuses on a thing,
like in this case, AI, where it's like everything
that gets invested in is AI.
And there's just so much money
and so many companies creating it.
Remind me of like, like universe creation.
Like we think of like all the energy,
like all that crazy amount of mass.
And it's just like explodes.
And that's like all the money.
And then it like congeals into like stars, you know what I mean?
And like, or like clusters of things.
It's like they're all getting acquired
and like focusing into the right things.
You know what I mean?
They just kind of like visually it works for me.
That just visually makes sense.
- Yeah, it clicks for me too.
Is there something satisfying about that, that imagery?
I think what's funny about this stuff
and Jay posted to me about this other day is unlike your example
where there's like an initial burst of energy
and everything is just a chain reaction, VCs kind of operate.
Like that's true where they're like,
I forgot what Jay's tweet was.
It was something like, the world is going to change
and I'm just going to wait patiently
while that happens on its own.
You know, it's like, it's not that like there's a force
of nature changing the world.
It's like people dragging like individuals one by one
and dragging users one by one.
And like it's such this intense like intentional human process
but investors are just like, there's a trend
and I'm going to like my sales
and it's going to like carry me, you know?
- Take three, four.
- Yeah, you'd literally do nothing.
- And they had this perspective that like,
oh, there's these shifts that just happened
but now like people are like pulling the world
through those shifts.
- Yeah, VC, the whole VC thing is a, I hate to say,
I don't know if I should say negative things
about VCs on my chest.
I should, okay.
Well, yeah, why would I sometimes?
- I mean, I posted that picture of my cone head.
Like I don't think.
(both laughing)
- Well, they just, they remind me so much
they're like upper class real estate agents to me.
Like that whole profession of real estate agents
is just like, what are you again?
What, it's like, it's like a middle man kind of
but it's like, do I even need you?
I don't know.
We do need venture capitalists
because I don't know a lot of old rich.
Well, I know some.
- That's really, the requirement for the job
is you need to know.
- Yeah.
- Like you need to know rich people.
- That's literally it.
- Yeah.
- And you can raise the fund.
- Mm hmm.
- It's interesting.
- It's like, I actually know enough to raise a fund.
I just think it's the most boring job in the world.
- I think the funniest, think of the funniest outcome
would be DAX becomes like the mean,
the funniest like stereotypical VC.
- No, I don't have it in me.
Like it's not.
- It'd be pretty funny.
- I just don't.
I don't have it in me.
It would be funny.
- Actually, it wouldn't be that funny
if you made a lot of money.
- I think it would be confusing.
If I made a lot of money.
- It'd be confusing.
Yeah.
It'd be awesome if you made a lot of money.
- Like I do as a joke
but then I have like three years of time.
- And then yeah, I actually succeed.
Yeah.
- Yeah.
- That's funny.
You're bio like early in XYZ
and all the different companies you were early in.
It's so funny how like every profession has like
the Twitter bio like cookie cutter template.
You know what I mean?
Like you can look at somebody's Twitter bio
and know what they do without even like knowing
where they work or what they do.
- There's a VC that I really dislike.
I found his Twitter bio really funny
because I can't remember his name or anything about him
but it's like you go to his Twitter bio
and it's like there's like 50 companies tagged.
It's like the most amount of things.
It's like I'm involved in all of these.
It's like how does he not realize
that the more companies you put the more of a joke
it looks like that you're claiming any association with them.
It's like you can't actually be involved
in all these companies.
So clearly you're just pulling up any possible thread.
Yeah.
- Yeah.
- Oh man.
I feel like I don't want to talk about Twitter anymore.
I feel like we talk so much about it.
I feel like our podcast is becoming me
and you catching up on like what we tweeted.
(laughing)
And like I should just do that on Slack.
I should just ask you when I have questions about your Twitter
that we could talk about other things.
(laughing)
- That's true.
I'm just imagining getting DM's from you being like,
"Hey, nice post.
"Like what does this mean exactly?"
- Yeah, what does this mean?
- I just learned what depot means today.
I still don't know what that is.
- Apparently this part of Twitter or no, I actually don't know.
- I know the acronym.
I just, it's like a, I don't really understand it.
- What could you confirm?
Is it this part of Twitter?
'Cause I think I saw five different answers.
- I think it's like that part of Twitter or something.
- That part of Twitter, okay.
- Yeah.
Anyway, just kind of moving away from this zone.
- Yes.
- Did you see that remakes finally announced the thing?
Well, I got halfway through the article probably.
- My attention is not that good anymore.
But I got to the part where they explained,
did Ryan write that article?
- I think it was a team effort.
- Or both kind of Michael.
- Yeah.
- I got to the part where whoever explained
that they're like starting fresh, remix three is like not,
is it not built on top of React Router?
Is it like starting to crash?
- No, it's like they're trying to build a new thing
with a certain set of constraints and they're exploring that.
- Does React Router like acquired?
Like, what did Shopify acquire?
The team?
- Shopify acquired, yeah, the team.
But React Router now has like an open governance thing
that they set up.
- Okay, so are they still at Shopify?
Are they leaving Shopify and building remix?
- Yes, they're still at Shopify.
- Okay, so remakes is still a Shopify thing or no?
Or does it matter?
Maybe it doesn't matter.
- They have support from the Shopify CEO to go this route.
- Gotcha.
- Which is what?
I think matters.
- Yeah.
- So it's going to be a new web framework.
Can you catch me up? You probably read the whole article
or talk about it or something.
- I've like kind of known about this for a bit.
So the main detail is this new thing they're building,
it's not going to be built on top of React.
It's going to be built on top of Preact,
which is like, in a lot of ways it's all the best parts
of React just like slimmed down.
Kind of like the React that we remember
before it got really crazy.
- The React, I remember.
- They're setting constraints themselves,
which is they're not going to try to solve any problems
using like compiler tricks.
- Right.
- Which I think people interpret in a wide range of ways.
They're like, oh, they're saying that everyone using
this new thing needs to like go down this no-built path
where it's just like JavaScript files and whatever.
I interpret it a little differently.
I think about it more like it's more about setting constraints
themselves to push them in like an unexplored design space
where they will build a framework around these constraints.
They believe that will lead to something good
or have these good side effects.
You can still have like a heavy build process on top
that if you need it, a lot of production apps do.
So I thought there was exploring this.
I think pretty much unexplored area of,
hey, if we need to do SSR and SSR framework,
almost everyone uses file-based routing
because that helps you easily split
the different routes and things like that.
But they can't do that.
So what would an SSR framework look like
when you can't rely on getting a file system
during building stuff?
- For dummies, real quick.
Why can't they do that?
So if they don't have a compile step,
they can't do file-based routing or is that what you're saying?
- Yeah, so file-based routing is an example
of something that needs a compile step, right?
'Cause something needs to scan your file system
and like pull out the files and know that, okay,
this file is for client, this file is for server,
like no stuff like that.
- I see, yeah. - Or the RIC thing
where there's like, they use client thing at the top,
you need some kind of compiler to go and analyze that
and do it.
So I think about it more like for like developer-facing features,
there's no feature in their framework
that's gonna require something like that.
But I think a lot of the conversation
is now devolving into the build versus no build game,
which-- - Yeah, I saw like Evan--
- Yeah, I mean, Evan's questions were good.
I think he had like, his question's basically hinted
at this thing, which is, well, there's certain things
that are just impractical.
But yeah, I don't see that as like,
you can still do those things.
It's more about not giving it to the temptation of,
hey, there's this problem.
If we do some fancy compiler trick,
we can actually solve it and see what a framework looks like
when you adhere to those.
- So it's the two-y thing.
It's like constraints just make for different design decisions.
And that's fun.
I like that.
- At least that's how I was interpreting it.
But then today, it might go--
- Did they correct you?
- Well, today I might go post it something like,
who's telling you you need a bundler?
Is it your users?
Is it the browser?
Or is it the guy that makes a bundler?
(both laughing)
- So maybe there really isn't going to be a bundler.
And I'd be very curious how that works out.
- Like, are they, yeah, so I don't know.
I don't know if they're just doing that for fun,
but it's hard to tell.
'Cause remember how remix was when they first came out?
And they were like always starting these like--
- Oh yeah, there was a lot of, yeah.
Since I've been acquired from Shopify,
I've almost forgotten about those days.
- Those were good days on Twitter.
- It was a good fun day.
- Yeah.
So already it's like, you know,
it's already starting up again.
But yeah, they should go really hard.
That would be so much rage bait.
Like if they just went really hard on like,
there will be no bundler.
I swear to you, like no bundler.
We're going no build, just go hard on it.
- Well, it's confusing.
'Cause that's what Michael said that.
But then someone else that's working on remix
had like a more detailed message yesterday,
which is more in line with what I'm saying,
which is it's more about how we decided--
- Yeah, well, they could do the reasonable thing
in practice.
They can actually implement it with a bundle.
But just stay on Twitter.
There will not be a bundler over my dead body.
- Yeah, but you know what's funny?
I found it really funny because he posted that.
And I immediately thought, oh yeah,
this was like when they would do this
and they would fight Liverpool and that whole era.
And I look at, I scroll down to replies.
Germo already took the bait.
Geropomer already took the bait.
Like they both have these, like, okay,
I guess we're back to what it was like, you know,
three years ago.
- Feels good.
Feels good.
I'm excited.
- Yeah, so I'm interested to see where it goes.
I don't know, I don't feel, I think it's going to be interesting.
I think there's going to be some value out of it.
It's just not in line with, like, my tastes.
Like I don't mind build steps and build processes and, like, tricks like that.
I know it gets, like, next day I just take an example of what that looks like
taking to an extreme.
But yeah, I'm okay somewhere in the middle.
Oh, yeah, I'm not, like, that excited about this.
- I've seen recent, like, group sync, not group sync.
Just recent, like, murmurs.
And I haven't thought about next day's performance in, like, a year.
I just kind of felt like all the early, when they came out with the, whatever version
it was, 15, 14, whatever, the app router, when they came out that, and it was, like,
so slow and dev, and everybody was just shitting on it incessantly.
I remember thinking, like, well, they're a big engineering team, they'll figure it out.
But I've seen, like, recent murmurs about how it's still really slow.
Did that just, like, did that never get better?
Is next year's just, like, a slow thing now?
Do you know?
- It's so inconsistent.
There's people that still say their dev set up socks, and they, like,
it's, like, a really miserable experience.
Other people say that it's fine, they upgrade to conversion, like, wow, it's so fast now.
And there's, like, run time, like, production.
Some people say that it's, like, slow.
Other people say it's not.
Someone put React Router inside Next.js.
And I'm just like, what are you doing?
Like, what the hell is the point of this?
'Cause I think I might be wrong, 'cause I kind of, I have such a time keeping track
of all this stuff, but I'm pretty sure an app router, any navigation requires a
server round trip.
- Hmm.
- That feels like the kind of statement that you say, and then you get, like, three tweets
from versatile employees.
Like, actually, if you ISR, and then you're, you're, you're, you're, you're.
- There's probably something that's not correct about that, but I know a lot of people's default
experience is, I'm not, it's not, like, a full page refresh or anything.
It's just, I think it's just, like, an asynchronous call to render, to have the server render,
like, the next fragment, and they need to replace whatever's on the screen.
And that's innately slower than client-side rendering.
- Sure.
- I think that's what people get tripped up with.
- That is the routing.
It's the, the client-side.
It's not a, like, a spa feel.
So people get tripped up.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I, I think that's what it is, but.
- I just wonder, the reason I asked, I wondered if, like, is it possible as a big organization
like Vercel, they just got so into V zero that that became the important thing, and they
just said, like, to hell with Next.js and its performance issues.
I don't know.
It seems unlikely.
- I don't think so.
I think, in terms of, like, user allocation, it's, like, the same, if not more than ever.
But.
- Yeah.
Makes sense.
- I don't know.
I think they're just in, like, a tough zone of trying to do everything, and they're, like,
sometimes, like, certain designs just don't, don't work nicely.
I think the feel I have from it is, and it's so hard to, like, really ingest this.
Like, do you remember the feel of, like, legacy frameworks, like, it's stuff that you didn't
grow up with, but, like--
- What, what, what are we even talking about legacy anymore?
Like, what is legacy?
Like, I'm trying to think of stuff from our past, like, do you remember, like, working
on--
- Create React app?
- Are we going further back?
- No.
Something that's, like, really dominant.
I'm trying to, I'm trying to think of a good example, like, do you remember what it felt
like working on, like, an ASP type thing, where it's, like, it's huge, everyone used
it, like, whatever, but, like, you know, it wasn't, like, cool, or, like, light, or, like,
any of these things?
But it was massively successful, and continued to be massively successful, to this day.
I think that's kind of where Next.js is now.
- Interesting.
Yeah.
It's the ASP.NET of the 2020s.
- It's like, the default choice, lots of companies will use it.
It's definitely way better, like, in terms of the stuff that they do, and, like, they do
try quite hard.
- But its position in the mindshare and in the ecosystem is, like, very--
- It's hard to see it that way, because we, like, saw it come up.
Like, we were around to see it come up, so it doesn't feel like it could be that.
But something has to be in that slot, right?
- Yeah.
That's a great point.
- And it feels like, I think that's probably what it is now.
- I mean, if it's not still just ASP.NET, then I wonder, like, are we just in this little
Twitter niche that knows what Next.js is, and, like, the rest of the world, doesn't it?
- It's huge.
Like, it's--
- Okay, so people all over the place.
- Including, like, yeah, like, giant, like, if there's some giant enterprise company with,
you know, the team of engineers that, like, are not plugged into anything that's going
on at all.
- They're still using Next.
- Next.
- Okay.
- Yeah, like, when, like, that's-- when you become that choice, you're, like, massively
successful.
It's, like, incredible to get there.
But--
- Yeah.
- Yeah, they're just gonna feel that.
This is a reality that comes with that, 'cause--
- Mm-hmm.
- And we see this all the time, where, with-- working on SST, we're, like, so focused on
DX things and trying to make everything better, incrementally, better, incrementally, better.
And then every once in a while, we'll have a call with, like, a big enterprise company.
And they're like, "Oh, yeah, we love SST.
It's great.
We're using it more.
We have these questions."
And then you dig into it with them.
Turns out, like, 90 percent of our features, like, aren't even working.
And, like, they're experiencing, like, the most degraded DX possible.
But to them, they're like, "This is great.
This is, like, better than everything else that we have."
So it's, like, their tolerance for pain is so much crazier.
So again, when people are saying, "Oh, the next day is depth server slow," or whatever,
it might still be, like, amazing for, like, comparison for a lot of these teams.
That's how it is.
- Yeah.
- That's so funny that, uh, just you recounting the enterprise, we-- I just got on a call
with-- so a few of us on the Stampede's team got on a call with the Stampede's user, who's
having issues that were so bizarre that, like, three of us got on a phone call with
them.
They're like, "If this is, like, even a hundred users, yeah, like, we got on the phone with
an end user who had reached out to support."
So my co-founder and I, and one of our engineers, are on this call.
And the whole site, like, basically wouldn't render.
I mean, like, he was missing, like, huge chunks of the site.
And he, like, had to do this crazy set of steps to find a sign-in button, because there
was no sign-in button.
So we had to go to, like, pages that had, like, a kind of an upsell button on the table,
to, like, sign-in, and he was just doing it happily, because he didn't know about it.
And he's like, "Yeah, that's great."
I'm like, "I'm not even half of the site loaded.
It's crazy."
So we figured out the issue, but it just reminded-- when you said the Enterprise thing, like,
people will put up with stuff.
Yeah, and there's good, probably, market fit.
It's just funny what people put up with.
Yeah, it's like, the stuff that I feel bad about, they're, like, miles-- they're, like,
miles behind that, it's just funny to get that perspective.
Are enterprises using V3, or are they still-- do you have a lot of customers still using
V2?
A lot of V3.
I think our total V3 usage is, like, 5X, what V2 ever was?
Really?
Yeah.
So, like, we still haven't moved on to V3 yet.
I'm working on it right now, but, uh, but that means it's still on V2, and I wondered
if that's normal or if--
No, it is.
There's a lot of people still using V2, but it's just like the growth for V3, like, outpaced
any, like, historical usage of V2, which is always really crazy to see, because when
you're doing the transition, you're, like, so nervous about it, but then in hindsight,
you're, like, we're-- this was, like, so much more successful, like, we could have pissed
off every single V2 user, and it would have still been--
And started over and still had more success.
Yeah.
Yeah, it would have been tiny.
Yeah, which is, like, again, like, the remix thing.
I think it's kind of like that where everyone wants them just to, like, stick to the zone
and increment from wherever they are, but if V3 is successful, it's really means V3,
right?
Okay, they're also doing a V2 to V3.
Yeah.
Big jump.
Mm-hmm.
It is successful in the way that it needs to be, for them to continue working on it.
It's going to, like, make all the old remix usage seem, like, basically zero.
Yeah.
Man, you've got me missing that era, just when it remixed was a thing on Twitter.
I just do.
And just all the--
And just all the stuff happens now.
There's a lot--
Is it the algorithm or something?
I do feel like Twitter is-- okay, so it could be a few things.
I was thinking about, like, that era when, like, everybody had an avocado in their bio,
like, there was, like, a million developer advocates and developer relations.
Yeah.
That's not on Twitter anymore.
And I feel like either they all went to mastodon or whatever.
And that's why things change, because, like, just the group that stayed on Twitter is just
very different than what it used to be.
Or it's something like the algorithm not feeding us the same kind of stuff.
Nothing's different.
It does feel like there's not really much happening at any given time on Twitter.
And they're used to feel like there's a lot.
Yeah.
It's not even just on Twitter.
I just mean, like, I feel like there was a period-- for most of my career, I felt like
I would keep up with Hacker News.
And every week, there'd be, like, something very interesting new that somebody was trying
or a new project or whatever.
And it feels like that peaked in an era where a bunch of dev tool companies were founded
and funded.
And then, like, that's when, like, all that stuff we're talking about was going on.
And then there was a consolidation period where most of those companies failed or they
realized, like, this giant dev advocate presence was, like, doesn't make sense.
But also, I think that the companies just went away.
Yeah.
And there's been, like, crazy consolidation where it feels like there's not really any
room for anything new.
Like, do you remember when, like, there was an era where you'd always hear about spilt
and, like, spilt was doing something new and that was, like, a cool, interesting thing.
And then, oh, and then Solage just came out and that's, like, a cool and interesting thing.
And then it feels like now all those projects kind of work in silence and they're kind of
established themselves.
Yes.
I don't know.
It just feels like we're very standardized and consolidated.
And I think the AI thing-- I don't know if this is actually what's happening, but in
theory, the AI thing pushes consolidation, right, because it, like, kind of, like, pushes
people into an error set of tools.
Yeah.
Like, people are more apt to use the defaults because the AI is more apt.
Like, Tailwind, like, ended up winning and, like, there was a period where it was like--
Yeah.
And when he talks about that, there's just, like, so little of the, like, framework wars
or any signs of, like, just drama for the sake of drama.
Like, all that just kind of went away, but it's not, like, in a good way.
It's not, like, in a-- oh, it's so great.
It feels stagnant.
All the productive conversation.
It just feels like, yeah, stagnant.
It feels like we, like, explored the space of ways of doing things and turns out there's
just, like, a narrow set that most people are going to settle on.
And now there's nothing else to explore here, which might be true.
And I wonder if, like, scientific research works this way, too, where, like, you go down
some path and there's, like, all this discovery and new stuff to figure out.
Yeah.
And eventually, you've, kind of, roughly, like, covered that zone of exploration.
Mm-hmm.
And the next one is going to be somewhere completely different.
Like, I think that's maybe what it is, but it's not just front-end, though.
Like, it's also back-end.
It's also, like, different architectures in, like, on your back-end.
It's also databases.
Yeah.
Feels like a lot less, like, programmer, just discourse.
It's just-- I think it's, like, there's no more wrong ideas, but wrong ideas are exciting,
you know?
It's-- I remember, like, I remember-- I remember, like, a database was just a big question mark
for so much of my career.
It's, like, every new project I was going to try a new database.
Like--
Yeah.
Oh, graph databases.
Like, those were really cool and you can do all these cool things with graph databases
and that was, like, a thing.
But now, it's just, like, yeah, just use a relational database and it's probably fine.
Yeah.
Oh, that perfectly sums up the database conversation.
That just perfectly sums up this, like, era of trying new, crazy things and constantly
feeling like, I need to do the other thing, because maybe time series databases are whatever.
There's, like, seven startups for every type of database.
Yeah.
And then, like, this era just feels like everybody just uses Postgres and MySQL and nobody cares.
There's seven startups for Postgres.
Yeah, it literally is.
Yeah.
But, like, yeah, the conversation is no longer-- that's such a good point.
So it's just that we figured out all the right answers, is that basically it?
And now, there's not that much to talk about.
It's, like, which--
The thing is, like, it's not that--
Because I ultimately believe that you can usually make anything work, right?
Yeah.
The fact that you chose a graph database, like, some things are going to be harder.
Other things are going to be easier.
But, like, you would probably be fine for, like, a lot of projects would probably be fine.
But nobody does that anymore.
It feels like--
Mm-hmm.
I feel like there's, like, no--
I don't know what it is.
It is.
Like, taking the hard path.
Yeah, there's no--
I don't know.
Like, being-- doing something that's, like, technically not right.
Yeah.
Do you ever just, like, wonder what does everyone work on?
Like, there's so many people on Twitter that are developers.
I'm like, what are these-- what do you do work on?
I'm sure they think about me, too.
But I just, like, I sometimes step back and I'm like, I don't even--
there's not that many things on the internet.
Like, what are these people building?
I know.
Well, sometimes I go through our SSC, like, customer list, like, the console list.
Because whenever, like, a new-- whenever people sign up, sometimes I'll, like, once a week,
like, look, who's paying and, like, what are they building?
Mm-hmm.
I go to their website.
And there is a lot of stuff.
There's, like, so much stuff, like--
I just don't get out much.
We're not that big in, like, there's-- you know, in a week, there's probably, like, three
to 4,000 production-ish projects with SSC, right?
Mm-hmm.
That are being worked on.
Yeah.
That's pretty crazy.
Heck, there's so many.
Yeah.
Yeah, I just don't get out much.
That's the point.
I think I just don't explore the internet.
I have, like, five sites.
But I kind of agree with you.
Like, despite me literally seeing that, I, like, know that it's all happening, but it's almost,
like, what are these things?
Like, this makes sense to exist.
Like, there's a whole team that's making money doing this and growing and fundraising and doing
all that, but it's just--
The world is big.
The world is so much bigger than it seems.
Yeah.
All right.
We're not even going to make it an hour because I've got to pee and there's just, like,
so much to do.
I feel like this is one of those podcast episodes where we're both busy and it's just kind of,
like, I want to talk.
I do.
But also--
I want to work more.
Yeah.
It's just unfortunate realities sometimes.
Okay.
All right.
Let's see.
I'll call it.
All right.
See ya.
Bye.
[MUSIC]